## Hello World

- Run a hello world container to get started
	```docker run hello-world```

- Run the following command to take a look at the container image it pulled from Docker Hub:
	```docker images```
	
	- Command output
	
		> REPOSITORY TAG IMAGE ID CREATED SIZE
		> hello-world latest 1815c82652c0 6 days ago 1.84 kB
- Look at the running containers by running the following command
```docker ps```
	
	- Command Output
	
		> CONTAINER ID IMAGE COMMAND CREATED STATUS PORTS NAMES
			
		- There are no running containers. The hello-world containers you ran previously already exited. In order to see all containers, including ones that have finished executing, run ```docker ps -a```
	
	- Command Output

		> CONTAINER ID IMAGE COMMAND CREATED STATUS PORTS NAMES
		> 1c293ed54de3 hello-world "/hello" 9 minutes ago Exited (0) 9 minutes ago objective_austin
		> e1163641170c hello-world "/hello" 9 minutes ago Exited (0) 9 minutes ago sweet_galileo
		- This shows you the ***Container ID***, a UUID generated by Docker to identify the container, and more metadata about the run. The container ***Names*** are also randomly generated but can be specified with docker run --name [container-name] hello-world.

## Build

- Let's build a Docker image that's based on a simple node application. Execute the following command to create and switch into a folder named  `test`.

   ```mkdir test && cd test```

- Create a `Dockerfile`:

	```bash 
	cat > Dockerfile <<EOF
	# Use an official Node runtime as the parent image
	FROM node:6
	# Set the working directory in the container to /app
	WORKDIR /app
	# Copy the current directory contents into the container at /app
	ADD . /app
	# Make the container's port 80 available to the outside world
	EXPOSE 80
	# Run app.js using node when the container launches
	CMD ["node", "app.js"]
	EOF
	```
	
This file instructs the Docker daemon on how to build your image.

-   The initial line specifies the base parent image, which in this case is the official Docker image for node version 6.
-   In the second, we set the working (current) directory of the container.
-   In the third, we add the current directory's contents (indicated by the  `"."`  ) into the container.
-   Then we expose the container's port so it can accept connections on that port and finally run the node command to start the application.

